Welcome to the Overview of Cybersecurity Specialist
Professional Certificate. In today's digital age, cybersecurity skills
are in high demand as businesses strive to protect the security of their
infrastructure, network applications, and data. The IBM cybersecurity specialist professional certificate
will prepare you with the in-demand skills necessary for entry-level cybersecurity
specialist opportunities. This professional
certificate, PC, requires no prior IT, cybersecurity, or
programming background, and is suitable for those with or without a
college degree. It will equip you to understand cybersecurity's
fundamental concepts, processes, tools,
and strategies. Throughout the courses, many
practical hands on labs and exercises enable you to demonstrate your skills
to potential employers. In addition to becoming
fully prepared for an entry-level
cybersecurity role, this program will help you prepare for cybersecurity
certifications such as the Certified in
Cybersecurity CC from ISC2. The professional
certificate also partially covers
content that will help the Systems Security Certified practitioner SSCP from ISC2. The cybersecurity specialist
professional certificate consists of 12 courses. In the first course,
you'll be introduced to career options
in cybersecurity, and introduction to
cybersecurity careers. Next you'll become familiar with IT and Cloud fundamentals. Courses 2-6 will also prepare
you for the Comp TIA, ITF plus certification exam. Introduction to hardware
and operating systems, introduction to software
programming and databases, introduction to
networking and storage, introduction to Cloud computing, introduction to
cybersecurity essentials. Then you'll move on to ISC2 certified
cybersecurity courses, security principles, incident response
BC, and DR concepts, access control concepts, network security,
security operations. The course will conclude with
a capstone project where you'll apply and demonstrate all you have learned
throughout the program. Cybersecurity capstone. Each topic corresponds to an online course you can
complete independently. Each course consists of
three to six modules. Completing courses
covering different topics, and the required
projects will earn you the IBM cybersecurity specialist professional
certificate. You commence your cybersecurity
professional journey with an overview of the
available career options. The introduction to
cybersecurity careers course is designed to give you the knowledge to find and secure the right information
security (Info Sec) career. You will also become
familiar with the most recognized
certifications in the field provided by
organizations such as Comptia, ISC2 like A+, and CISSP, and so on. Hardware and
operating systems are the next topics in this
professional certificate. This beginner-level
course provides the core hardware and
operating system knowledge needed by anyone new to
IT and computer hardware, who wants to start a new
career in technology, including IT
support, networking, cybersecurity, and
software development. The next course covers
the basics of software, Cloud computing, web browsers, application
development concepts, programming languages, and
database fundamentals. After completing this course, you'll better grasp
software processes and feel more confident using and
securing applications, networking and storage are an essential part of
cybersecurity skills. Enhance your basic knowledge, and learn about network types, cables, topologies, and models. You'll understand how data
travels across the network and discover how protocols and standards enable all
network activity, diagnose and troubleshoot
network connectivity issues, and discover how to use command line utilities and network tools in
Windows settings. Essential characteristics
of Cloud computing and emerging technologies
supported by the Cloud are also a part of the professional certificate. You'll explore Cloud
service models including infrastructure as
a service, IaaS, platform as a service PaaS, software as a service SaaS, and public, private, and
hybrid deployment models. Fundamental cybersecurity
skills are crucial for anyone using computing devices and connecting to the internet. A cybersecurity
professional must recognize common security threats and risks that individuals and
organizations may face, such as theft, tampering, and destruction of
sensitive information. In this course, you'll discover
the characteristics of cyber attacks and
learn how you can employ best practices
to guard against them. Start with the
security principles of information assurance as part of ISC2 certified
cybersecurity courses. The concepts include risk
management, security controls, policies, procedures, standards,
regulations, and laws. As a cybersecurity professional, you need to understand how
organizations respond to, recover from, and continue to operate during
unplanned disruptions. Three distinct plans are
vital to the survival of any organization that the
ISC2 specialization covers. Incident response, IR,
business continuity, BC, and disaster
recovery, DR concepts. The ISC2 specialization also covers who gets access to what, why access is necessary, and how that access is managed. You'll learn both physical
and logical controls and how they're combined to strengthen the overall security
of an organization. Securing the computer
network is also part of the ISC2 specialization. Network security itself can be a specialty career
within cybersecurity. You must understand the
network concepts and models common network
threats and cyberattacks, and the network security
infrastructure. Finally, in the specialization, you need to learn
the day-to-day, moment-by-moment active use
of the security controls, and risk mitigation strategies an organization has in place. You'll explore ways to secure the data and systems they
reside on and how to encourage secure
practices among people who interact with the
data and systems daily. The capstone project
is where you'll apply all the skills
learned as part of the PC. This project will
be a good addition to your portfolio and take you close to the cybersecurity specialist professional
certificate. As you review the content, you'll be presented
with quizzes and projects to evaluate
your learning. The graded quizzes carry a weightage that contributes
to the course completion. Most projects will be peer graded and carry a
certain weightage contributing to the
course professional certificate completion
requirement. Finally, after you've completed all the content successfully, you'll be awarded the IBM cybersecurity specialist
professional certificate, a credential valued
by many employers. We wish you the very best and hope you enjoy this journey.